[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Dr. Gerald Cohen
was a young man
in Jerusalem when
his life took an abrupt turn.
Learning of an aged
scholar and healer, Gerald
had the depth of curiosity
to follow a path of mysticism
in his quest to heal.
This in turn, led to the
ancient works of others
that he found to
have profound truths.
Today, he incorporates
homeopathy, light therapy,
and other scientific
breakthroughs
into his practice that
views the person as a soul
first and a body second.
Welcome, Gerald.
It's lovely to
speak to you again.
It's been a couple of years
since our last conversation.
And I can't tell you how
much I appreciate the fact
that your philosophy allows
for the multi-dimensional being
to sit in front of
you for evaluation,
rather than just the body.
I mean that is qualitatively
a completely different way
to look at healing.
>>GERALD COHEN: Thanks
so much for having me.
It's just a pleasure.
And the last one was
a great interview.
And I'm really looking
forward to this one.
>>REGINA: Good.
Well, we're ready to roll.
So let's talk about
the times in Jerusalem
because that was
quite a long time ago.
You were a young man.
>>COHEN: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: I want to know where
your story really begins.
I think it even begins
before that, curiosity wise.
>>COHEN: It actually
began in New York.
And I used to stay up all night
listening to the Long John
Nebel show.
And he had on his show
guests that were just
extremely profound.
And one of them was
a Tibetan teacher.
And he talked about meditation.
I was 14 years old.
And I stayed up all night.
It went from 10:00 to 5:00.
And I meditated along with them.
And I said I got to share
this with everybody.
This can really change people.
And so next day I was at
the park, in New York.
And there was a
bunch of people I
knew that were not the
nicest people in the world,
that I was friends with.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
>>COHEN: Rough teenagers.
And I said, you want
to try something cool?
And that was my first
meditation class at 14.
>>REGINA: That was gutsy.
I mean to take it
at 14, to think
that you had enough authority
to carry that forward,
which is amazing.
>>COHEN: They liked me.
>>REGINA: They liked
you, obviously.
>>COHEN: They liked
my poetry also.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: That's really neat.
I mean, the thing is
when did you ever sleep?
I mean how did you do
school during those years
or were you living
on these fumes?
>>COHEN: I wasn't going
to school that much.
I was passing exams--
>>REGINA: It was fun
enough not have to show up.
>>COHEN: --and working
in a restaurant,
and going to Greenwich Village,
and hearing music, and hanging
out with creative people.
But I did graduate.
>>REGINA: Did you,
yes, of course.
So you went on to-- how did
you end up in Jerusalem?
And what was it
that happened there
that really changed
things for you
and turned you
more into a mystic
before you even went through
the medical trainings?
>>COHEN: Well, I started
with the mysticism
from listening to the show and
seeing the profound changes
that I was working with
people already as a teenager.
>>REGINA: How did
those guys in the park
work out, by the way, after
you exposed them to meditation.
>>COHEN: They stopped
stabbing people.
>>REGINA: Did they really?
>>COHEN: Yeah, absolutely.
>>REGINA: And they
went along with it.
>>COHEN: They went
along with it.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
>>COHEN: And some of them
ended up in the mafia,
and some of them
ended up in Vietnam,
and we lost a few of them.
But they were different people.
>>REGINA: Wow.
OK.
>>COHEN: And so
what happened was
I broke up with my girlfriend.
I was 17 years old.
She was a lot older than me.
And she told me, go travel
the world for two years
and come back and see if you
still want to be with me.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
>>COHEN: And so I
started to travel.
And one of the places I
stopped in was Jerusalem.
And I put on a black
coat and a black hat.
And I pretended to
be an Orthodox Jew.
And I started to study in
a place called Yeshiva Mir.
And that's where I heard
about this ancient teacher.
And one of the students
there told me about him.
And he said that he
gives lessons at night,
but you have to fight to get in.
>>REGINA: Literally?
>>COHEN: Literally fight.
People would punch to get
in because it was so--
you get bruised.
>>REGINA: How strange is that?
>>COHEN: Oh, it was bizarre.
>>REGINA: You had to
punch it out with others
to get into a spiritual
mysticism training.
>>COHEN: Yeah.
He was 94 years old at the time.
And all his students
had been killed
in the Holocaust in Poland.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>COHEN: And they somehow got
him out before that happened.
And so there wasn't many
teachers in that time.
Now, there are in Jerusalem.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
>>COHEN: And so I
sat there with him.
And I struggled with his accent.
But I got enough out of it.
And he beautifully explained
how an intention manifests
in reality, and
that whole process,
and how perfect it was.
And it comes from a thought
from God or a creator.
And it steps down into duality,
and then individuality,
and then action.
And that all the world is an
expression of that process,
called the etz chaim,
which is the tree of life.
>>REGINA: Didn't you
tell me off camera,
if I remember correctly, that
in Hebrew the word thought
and thing--
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --is the same thing?
>>COHEN: That's right.
In biblical Hebrew,
but non-biblical.
>>REGINA: Biblical Hebrew,
yes, which makes sense
because what you're
saying, which we now
know is true, that thoughts
manifest into things.
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>COHEN: And the quality of the
intention behind the thoughts
is critical because if
your intention is off,
your thoughts will be off.
The thoughts are when they
break down into duality,
but before that you have to
have the spiritual intention.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
>>COHEN: So I used to go to
Mount Zion and meditate there.
And when I got up there,
there was a memorial
to victims of the Holocaust.
And that's when I got the
thought that, wait a minute--
and I was still 17
years old at the time.
And I'm thinking
what went wrong?
This is a perfect system.
I mean, what went wrong?
Why do people treat
each other this way?
What about this destruction?
Why is there so much
disease and unhappiness?
There's nothing in
the plan that I heard
from this old, ancient teacher.
>>REGINA: It has to be that way.
>>COHEN: It wasn't.
It's not in the design.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: The design is--
>>REGINA: So it's a corrupted
program, so to speak.
>>COHEN: Coming from us.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: And so that's when
I came up with the question.
So if it's broken,
can it be repaired?
And if it's broken,
is it broken inside us
or is it broken as a society?
And it was just a question.
And nobody can answer
that question for me.
And that became the
direction of my life.
>>REGINA: And you
came in contact
with another philosopher,
as I understand,
that had a very
big impact on you.
>>COHEN: Well, I was at Mt.
Zion during the same time.
And there was a
spiritual teacher.
I had no idea who he was.
But there was a long line
of people wanted to see him.
So I got on line.
I was the last one on line.
And I had no idea where he was.
>>REGINA: You didn't have
to punch your way in anyway.
>>COHEN: Nobody was punching.
Everybody was very polite.
And when he got to
me, he looked at me.
And he said to me, don't spend
your life looking for answers.
Spend your life looking
for the right questions.
And that was the beginning
of a lifetime relationship,
until he died in '94,
where we became friends.
He became a teacher of mine.
But he also became a patient
of mine, where I treated him
over a long period of time.
>>REGINA: Interestingly,
one of the things
that fascinated me about you
is when we were talking off
camera a couple years ago.
>>COHEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We were just casually
discussing some teachings
that you also do, aside
from your medical work
that you do with people.
And included in your
client base, and people
who were attending your more
mystical workshops and such,
were two other people that
I've interviewed, that I have
a great amount of respect for.
Both of them
physicists, and really
searching for answers
from the same quantum soup
that you're talking about.
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And when I realized
they were your students,
I thought, uh-huh, I'd
better pay attention.
[LAUGHTER]
So let's talk about
where you started
going from the mystical
into the world of science
and medical treatments
such as homeopathy
because you started
with homeopathy long
before most people
had ever heard of it
in the United States.
>>COHEN: Right.
Well, actually homeopathy had
been here in the United States.
>>REGINA: Most people
just hadn't heard of it.
>>COHEN: Most of it
they had forgotten.
>>REGINA: They had
forgotten, yeah, that's true.
It was one out of five
physicians at one time
were homeopathic physicians.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>COHEN: I had the
fortune of meeting
some of the older homeopaths.
And it was basically
because homeopathy
couldn't be patented.
And when medical
education became uniform,
there was no funding
for postgraduate work
with homeopathy.
So it started to disappear.
But it actually was never--
I mean, there was presidents
of the United States, Thomas
Edison, said he couldn't
have invented anything
without homeopathy.
There was a senator from
New York, Aaron Copland,
that was a homeopathic
eye surgeon that
treated the president,
treated Calvin Coolidge,
and later became senate.
And that's why the
homeopathic pharmacopeia
was grandfathered in, because of
his work when he was a senator.
>>REGINA: And also
the royal family.
It's well known the
royal family in England
uses almost
exclusively homeopathy,
unless someone has to be rushed
to the hospital for something.
>>COHEN: Well, the
palace physician
has always been a homeopath,
for over 200 years.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>COHEN: And they actually
had a woman, when I started,
that was a palace physician.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
how you became involved.
What is it about homeopathy
that you find so profound
and that intrigued
you to the extent you
started embracing it and
folding it into your practice?
>>COHEN: There was
an instinct that I
had that the whole world
was going into macro doses.
>>REGINA: Explain that
a little bit more.
>>COHEN: They were
going into taking
pharmaceutical substances
to suppress symptoms.
And I early figured out from my
work with Kabbalistic medicine
and talking to a
lot of physicians
and traveling around that
suppression is not the way
to go if you want to be
healthy and if you want
to have a life that
expresses your own purpose
and your authenticity.
So I felt there had
to be a better way.
And the homeopaths talk
about predispositions,
they're called miasms, that
we come into the world.
And during that time,
I came of the opinion
that homeopathy was a derivative
of Kabbalah, Jewish mysticism.
It was a simplification
into a medical field
that happened in 1796.
>>REGINA: With Hahnemann?
>> COHEN: Hahnemann was
familiar with 14 languages,
including Hebrew.
So he would have had access
to that Gillian philosophy
of breaking something
down to its core,
and that resonated with me.
And I started spending
time with homeopaths
and eventually went and did a
PhD in the UK in homeopathy.
And in doing that, I realized
that the pharmacology of making
homeopathic medicines was really
the same thing the old man was
talking about, was how a thought
manifests into a substance.
And that you didn't need
the actual substance
to carry the information.
>> REGINA: And maybe this
is a good time to talk about
the whole process of
potentization and so forth,
so people understand that this
is water carrying information
essentially, or a medium--
alcohol, whatnot--
carrying information.
>> COHEN: Well, it's all changed
recently because of a French
scientist, Nobel Prize winner,
Montagnier who received
the Nobel Prize for
virology, for medicine,
for discovering the AIDS virus.
And he came out recently,
a few years ago,
and they're using, in an
institute in Shanghai,
China, funded by the
Chinese government,
they're finding that you don't
need the molecule-- exactly
what the homeopath said.
That what you need
is the signal,
and he's written
scientific papers called
"Ghost DNA" was one of the
ones that was really exciting.
Where the body keeps
producing the enzymes,
once it has the signal, even
though there's nothing physical
there left anymore.
And he said one thing that
got a lot of controversy.
He said, the homeopaths
got it right, and he said,
it's just a matter
of time before we
get to the high dilutions.
And when he wrote the
paper, it was 10 to the 18th
which is 1 to 100 billion,
I think which is exactly--
we can talk about-- it's how
our nervous system works.
That our nervous system,
brain-derived neurotrophic
factor, has to be in a 1 to 100
billion dilution or the nerves
die.
>> REGINA: Really?
>> COHEN: And so our own brain
is working homeopathically,
and this is what
they're discovering.
That the solutions to many
of the chronic diseases
that are induced by the
chemicals and the stresses
of modern living, the solutions
will be in the high dilutions.
It's just a matter
of time before we
can measure that high.
They have the technology.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
so when you have a homeopathic
substance, the
original substance,
a little bit is put
into the base solution,
whether it's alcohol,
water, whatnot.
>> COHEN: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And it's potentized.
It's shaken, shaken, shaken.
Right?
>> COHEN: No,
there's three things.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: It's micro-reduced.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> COHEN: Serially reduced.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COHEN: It's trituration,
which means it's mixed,
at a certain frequency,
and then it's succussed.
Now, what the
scientists found out
that you can use a centrifuge
and get the same result.
You don't have to succuss.
Succuss means the shaking.
>> REGINA: Shake.
Right.
>> COHEN: And Benveniste
in the 1980s, in "Nature"
magazine found the same
thing with antibodies,
the same thing that Montagnier
found in regular substances
which means that life
is just a thought.
>> REGINA: It's all
just information.
Right?
>> COHEN: I don't know about
if it's all information,
but how it explodes into
potential possibilities comes
from the original intention of
the information that's given.
The Information is the process
of going through the different
stages of existence and what
happened with me in homeopathy
was I realized that
the homeopaths--
though none of
homeopaths knew this--
were actually making--
the whole process
of making homeopathic
medicines was
going through the
process of tree of life.
And the whole frequency
is the tree of life
which is mathematics, and
so that's what I discovered.
And I realized that
Kabbalistic alchemy, which
is the spiritual component when
it's reduced through a step
down process,
becomes homeopathic,
so the spiritual aspect which
is the law of questions,
which is why each one
comes into this world.
Each one has to operate from
their own question coming
from the spiritual realm.
When it steps down, it becomes
the mental, the emotional,
and the physical, and if
we go through that process,
we can take experience and make
it into an entangled, elegant
consciousness.
>> REGINA: Absolutely,
and I think at this point,
just in the grossest sense, I
think it's important to impress
upon our viewers that
aren't already familiar with
homeopathy and don't
already understand this,
the difference between taking
substance, gross substance,
and throwing it at an ailment
versus using these subtle
frequencies, these
matrices of information,
mathematics and such,
and injecting that
into the condition.
Talk qualitatively
about why, because it
seems that less is
more, when it comes
to homeopathy and this kind of
treatment of the human being.
>> COHEN: Well, it's the
same thing with nutrition.
The laws of nutrition are
very similar to the laws
of homeopathy, that we should
eat things that our DNA knows
what they are.
There's a big component
of individuality there.
>> REGINA: Yes, and I want to
get into the nutrition part
in a little bit.
>> COHEN: But the idea is what
I've seen part of the insanity
is people taking
macro-doses, large doses,
that history has no
familiarity, thinking that's--
>>REGINA: This would be
pharmaceuticals, for example?
Or anything?
Food?
Anything?
>> COHEN: This would
be synthetic vitamins.
>> REGINA: Synthetic
vita-- oh, interesting.
Yes.
>> COHEN: Adulterated herbs.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COHEN: Things that people
think are natural and healthy.
>> REGINA: Well, that
makes sense when you take
into consideration that you're
really getting only micro
doses, when you're eating the
food whole and intact food.
Which unfortunately, there's
not a lot of intact food
out there, unless you go to
anthroposophical gardening,
biodynamics, and
that kind of thing.
A lot of the food
is fairly dead,
but let's say we
have a living food.
It is feeding us absorbable
micro-doses of all
of these vitamins and minerals.
That's what you're saying.
>> COHEN: Right, and the only
time you should use large doses
is if you have a disease,
and it's life-threatening.
Because then you want to
suppress that, keep somebody
alive, and then
rehabilitate them
gradually with micro-doses.
So that's the place for drugs.
Drugs save lives in
certain occasions.
They override our
bodies inability
to adapt to poisons
and stressors,
and they might keep us alive,
if they're the right drugs.
So there's no
question that there's
a place for
pharmaceutical medicines,
and there is actually
a small place
for some synthetic vitamins,
in certain occasions.
But for general health
and general recovery,
never give somebody
more than their body
is designed to handle.
>> REGINA: What about
natural compounds,
like whole food
vitamins, for example,
where you're deriving it
from the foods themselves?
Are those a little safer
to take on a daily basis?
>> COHEN: If they're
really made out of food.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: That's what
we use in my practice.
>> REGINA: Right,
if they really are.
>> COHEN: If they really are,
most of the thing is that
there's food to added
to the synthetic,
and they call it
whole food vitamins.
>> REGINA: Oh, that's a scam.
How do you find
out the difference?
>> COHEN: The only company I
know that actually does whole
food, and that's not
available in the stores,
and we use it as
Standard Process.
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Standard Process,
they're a good company.
>> COHEN: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Standard
Process, oh, good.
I'm making this note.
>> COHEN: And that starts
from the work of Royal Lee,
who is an engineer
and a scientist,
the idea that we had changed our
inner chemistry to a point we
were actually starving to death.
That we started using
a civilized diet,
which was basically
processed foods,
which were causing people to
really go into malnutrition,
and so he started the
formulas to counteract that.
That as we took
natural foods and put
in a few synthetic
vitamins in it,
people were actually starving.
And that's part of the reason
why there's such a weight
gain among people,
because they're
suffering from malnutrition.
We've talked about it in the
past, how many patients I
have had that work out
two, three hours a day
and eat very little,
and they gain weight.
It's a whole different breakdown
in our inner chemistries
and our inner problems.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I think a lot of people
listening to this
can relate, and thank you
for sharing that information.
>> COHEN: You're welcome.
>> REGINA: I didn't
realize that.
I didn't know it was just
one masquerading in the other
when it came to
whole food vitamins.
I want to go into
another area here,
before we start getting
into nutrition, cancer,
and some other subjects.
>> COHEN: OK.
>> REGINA: And that is you
really demand that there are--
in your practice, you fold
in the scientific proofs
that are bearing
out what you might
spin into motion with
someone's diagnoses
from a mystical standpoint.
So where do these two meet, and
how does the scientific bear
out the mystical?
>> COHEN: Well, the mystical
deals with our purpose
for being alive and the
fact that each one of us has
an opportunity to answer a
question and also to live
their life in a way
that expresses something
that's never been
expressed before or after,
but the science tells
us the mechanism.
>> REGINA: So explain that.
What's that look like, when
someone comes in your door?
>> COHEN: Well, many times,
I'm their last resort,
whether they have cancer
or any chronic disease.
People are breaking
down because of things
like what we call POPs
which are Persistent Organic
Poisons or pollutants,
particularly
the organic phosphates,
the carbamate--
there's so many of
the solvents that we
don't have any genetics to
clear them out of our system.
They're called cytochrome P450s.
So depending on the budget, I
do a lot of laboratory testing,
and I use that as measurements
to see where people are at
and what kind of
therapy we need to do.
And we have to
prioritize what we're
going to do with everybody.
People are getting disabled.
There's MIT
predictions that we'll
have a massive epidemic
of disabled people
that are kept alive
through pharmaceuticals
but won't be able to
afford to actually live
a day-to-day life, and they're
talking about that in a decade
from now.
So we have to, have to find
ways to give people the tools
to take charge of
their life, so they
don't lose this opportunity.
Because if you're suffering,
and you're unhealthy,
it affects your thinking.
It affects your relationships.
It affects the choices you make.
It affects your perspective
of why you're alive,
and you become a person
of suffering and disease,
instead of being a person
who's somebody really
extraordinarily special.
And that's something very
critical for all of us
to express in their lives.
>> REGINA: Very true, and it
seems that when someone goes
into that backup position
of pain and suffering,
the very last thing, if you
can still manage to originate
a clear thought or two, is
any kind of spiritual practice
or meditation, because
the focus isn't there.
The energy isn't there.
It's like that can wait
while you repair the body,
but in reality, that can't wait.
That is the connection.
So am I hearing you
correctly in saying
that every person is born not
with an answer but a question?
>> COHEN: Every person comes
in here because they had
a question.
Their life becomes the
answer to that question.
And if they're living a life
of suffering and torment,
if you remember what
the Dalai Lama said,
were drawn to what's
familiar because it's
the most suffering and torment.
And when I heard him say that,
it made a lot of sense to me.
Our habits, some
people call it karma.
They call it cause and
effect, but basically, we
get habituated to thinking
that, if we do something
over and over again, the same
thing, the next time we'll
do it better.
>> REGINA: No.
>> COHEN: And I found in my
life that that doesn't work.
When something doesn't
work, it just doesn't work.
Let's look.
Let's examine.
I know, in my own life, I've
had a change my questions,
and that's usually given me the
direction I needed, especially
with patients.
>> REGINA: And you've
talked about this.
We talked about in
our last interview
that when you're talking
about this question
you're coming in with,
this thing that you're
trying to solve or
find an answer to,
or perfect within your own
being, that that's often
passed on through
generation after generation.
And I know this gets into
the area of epigenetics.
>> COHEN: It is.
>> REGINA: And these same
questions may be the same
question that our parents
and grandparents and great
grandparents had that have
not really been balanced,
addressed, actualized.
>> COHEN: Right.
>> REGINA: Right?
>> COHEN: Exactly.
What happens with epigenetics
is that the situation
of your grandparents--
so if you're a male,
it's your grandfather
at puberty,
and that causes a
lack of methylation.
Methylation means it's a
carbon and three hydrogen that
attach to a gene,
and if you have that,
the gene never gets expressed.
So all of us come in
with mis-transcriptions.
So epigenetically, on the
histones, it's like a coil.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: That goes around that.
There's an attachment,
and what happens
is that there's information
that's transferred
from the previous generation.
And so if your
grandparent was starving,
you'll have a tendency to keep--
>> REGINA: Yes.
You talked about
this, and I wonder.
We're going to take
a little short break,
and I want to come
back and talk about one
of your clients that was going
through exactly what you're
talking about.
>> COHEN: We've had
many since then.
>> REGINA: Many since then.
Yeah.
You'll find this fascinating.
We'll be back in just a moment.
We're back, and
we're going to be
talking about this
multigenerational influence.
We now call it epigenetics.
I think Bruce
Lipton, who you know,
has also a very
instrumental in getting
a lot of that
information forward.
And let's talk about,
there's one case
I just happen to remember.
>> COHEN: OK.
>> REGINA: About a Mexican
girl who, as you say--
>> COHEN: Actually,
she was Guatemalan.
>> REGINA: A Guatemalan girl
who was really not eating a lot
of food and, she had no reason
to suffer from overweight.
So let's start from
there, and then you
can broaden it out into
some other clients,
and what you're finding.
>> COHEN: When I met her, I
assumed she was eating a junk
food diet, because
that's typical with kids.
And I was surprised
and shocked when
she came in with her mother,
and she was eating organic.
She was an A student, and she
was on the girls' soccer team
and was a good soccer player.
She was exercising a
really healthy lifestyle,
and no matter what she did,
she was gaining weight.
>> REGINA: And she
wasn't closet eating.
You were pretty
sure of that, or.
She wouldn't have been there?
Right
>> COHEN: She wasn't
closet eating,
according to her mother
and according to her.
>> REGINA: OK Yeah.
>> COHEN: It wasn't about
how much she was eating.
>> REGINA: So it was a mystery.
>> COHEN: Well, I've
had other cases.
I had one woman that was 360
pounds that was eating a salad
and exercising two hours a day.
Right now, we know the
mechanism of why that happens.
It's not about the food
and how much you're eating.
It's about estrogen
dominance and toxins
that your body can't release
being stored in the fat cells.
And the fat cells can
inflame up to 100 times
their normal weight,
and you gain weight
with the inflammation.
But this girl, she was
storing everything.
She wasn't utilizing.
And when I questioned
her mother,
she said the girl's grandmother
had 12 children, and most
of the time, there was
not enough food, so
her great grandmother
with her grandmother.
>> REGINA: So we're
four generations out.
>> COHEN: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And this is
this fear of not enough.
>> COHEN: It wasn't a fear.
It's a program.
>> REGINA: A program.
>> COHEN: It's a
biochemical pathway.
>> REGINA: But doesn't
it start as a fear?
>> COHEN: No.
>> REGINA: Can I say that
it will seed as a fear?
>> COHEN: No, because
there's no fear there.
That's what's so confusing.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> COHEN: It's
not psychological.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> COHEN: There's actually
a mechanism that affects
the inside of the mitochondria.
It's called the nitric
oxide-peroxynitrite pathway,
and it's the same pathway we
use in the emotional centers
to learn things that gets
hijacked for various reasons.
And so these tendencies
of fearing that I'm not
going to have enough.
I'm going to starve to death.
I'm not getting
enough nutrients.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: It's not about
eating the wrong nutrients.
It's not getting enough.
Even though, when
you get enough,
you're still programmed--
unless you break that program--
to store it.
>> REGINA: So this is
happening multigenerational
you're finding with
a lot of clients?
You're finding the same story.
>>COHEN: It would
skip a generation.
>> REGINA: So it goes
back to the grandparents.
>> COHEN: It goes back to the
grandparents and sometimes
the great-grandparents.
>> REGINA: The
great-grandparents,
that's interesting, because
just on a personal note,
in my bloodline, the
whole maternal side,
everyone is very overweight.
Some have been even obese and
morbidly obese in a few cases,
and it goes on and on.
And actually, at five, I
decided I couldn't do that,
and I decided to not do that.
As a five year old, how
do you know what this is?
So what happened in a case
like that, where then I
became the first generation
to not carry that forward?
>> COHEN: Well, what
does that tell you about
your personality?
>> REGINA: I was determined.
>> COHEN: You were determined.
What else?
>> REGINA: I was able to
manifest my thoughts in the way
I wanted.
What does it say, determination?
>> COHEN: It means that you
were an independent thinker
at a very early age.
>> REGINA: OK.
There you go.
Yeah.
>> COHEN: And you noticed
that something wasn't working
in the family.
>> REGINA: So you're saying
then this is the beginning
of the shift for everyone to
recognize it and make a choice?
>> COHEN: This is the value
of starting a case with
homeopathy, but I'm a
classical homeopath.
I'm trained in that.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COHEN: But then I
go into the nutrition.
I go into the laboratory tests.
There's other steps after.
I teach people meditation,
and there's many, many steps
in changing the lifestyle.
But the great power
of the homeopathy
is it quiets down,
just like Montagnier
found the work in Shanghai,
that it quiets down
these tendencies.
This is all just reactions.
>> REGINA: So it's quieting
down that hidden program
in your personal matrix?
>> COHEN: Yeah, simple signals
of kinases that signal the body
to do certain things, and
then we release other signals,
like cytokines.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> COHEN: And so by
quieting that reactivity,
saying you don't
have to do that,
you give the
different information.
Then, you can start
making the changes,
and they'll start work.
Many people today are
suffering from these chemicals.
My most influential person in my
whole life was my Uncle Robert.
He was a mailman.
He was the last of the
roaring individuals.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: I loved the man,
and he taught me about life.
But when he was born, there was
only one chemical in his body,
and that was lead from
the Industrial Revolution.
Today, the average baby,
through the latest statistics,
is born with 91 foreign
chemicals in their body.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: An average human
being today has close to 260,
265 chemicals, no studies
how they interact.
And some people that can't
clear them, or some people that
are estrogen-dominant,
which doesn't
mean they have
too much estrogen.
It means they're under stress,
so their progesterone is
converted into cortisol
to handle the stress.
And then they have
estrogen telling
the body build and swell and
do all the things sitting out
there, and eventually,
you run out
of storage places
for the toxins.
>> REGINA: And
then what happens?
>> COHEN: Then, you
get a breakdown Then,
it's just a matter of time
that you get chronic disease.
You get your cancers.
Depending on your own
genetics and epigenetics,
you'll come down with all
these chronic diseases
we're seeing from
diabetes, to a lot
of mental conditions, asthma.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
how you start clearing it,
because I think, do you deal
not just with homeopathy?
What about the notion of green
things, Chlorella and such?
A lot of people are doing a
lot of greens-- green juices,
green powders,
algaes, and so forth.
What is your feeling on this?
How do you recommend
people maybe start
the process of clearing these,
and is green a way to go?
>> COHEN: Well, you
have to first level--
level of toxicity.
There's a lot of
technology out there.
There's a lot of tests that
we do from MetaMetrics,
and there's Cyrix.
Gluten is a big one for
one out of five people.
>> REGINA: Yep.
>> COHEN: Not everybody.
It's not good to be
gluten-free, if you
don't have a gluten problem.
>> REGINA: What do you mean
it's not good to be gluten-free?
>> COHEN: Well, gluten is
very rich in phytonutrients.
So if you're depriving
yourself of--
gluten is not a health issue.
It's a genetic issue.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COHEN: So it's a poison,
if your body can't clear it.
>> REGINA: Right, but if
your body can clear it,
you're saying it actually
is a vital nutrient.
>> COHEN: It's a vital nutrient.
>> REGINA: And now, you're the
first person I've heard really
talk about this part.
>> COHEN: And a lot of
people get misdiagnosed
as gluten-sensitive, because
they're really just allergic
to proteins.
Their body's not
handling proteins,
and so gluten is one of them.
So that's a whole
different problem.
>> REGINA: Yes.
What is the name
of that problem?
It starts at a P. My
mind is blanking on it,
when you're allergic
to the proteins.
>> COHEN: Well, to me, it's
just that you see generally
their body starts producing
antibodies to everything from
soy, to milk, to wheat, to
eggs, and vegetable proteins.
I've even seen that.
>>REGINA: So how does that--
>> COHEN: That's why I
don't do allergy tests,
only at the end of a
case, if I'm stuck.
>> REGINA: So how does
that get spun into motion,
where you end up allergic
to that entire array?
>> COHEN: Break down the
immune system, you're gut.
You're gut's off.
You're tight junctions
are wide open,
and everything is
flowing into the blood,
and the liver can break it down.
>> REGINA: So
leaky gut syndrome.
>> COHEN: Leaky
gut is one of them,
but even there's many others.
You have to repair the gut.
>> REGINA: OK.
So let's start at the base.
OK?
Literally.
>> COHEN: OK.
>> REGINA: So if we
have toxicity issues,
say you even go to the extent
of having your blood work done,
finding out what kind of
toxins you have in the body.
You know you're allergic to
these other things we just
mentioned, because your
body's not handling them well.
You're getting tired, you're
bloating up, and all this.
How do you begin
to repair the guts?
>> COHEN: Well, if
somebody has a gut problem,
and I think most conditions
start with the gut.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: I'll do
an expanded GI test,
and based on what that'll
tell me, or if it's--
like I just had a referral
from overseas of two
young girls, six and
eight, that are presently
going into puberty.
>> REGINA: Oh.
Yeah.
>> COHEN: And so with them, so
the only medical treatment is
to suppress the
hormone development,
and you have to do something.
But I told them, I think
it's most likely heavy metals
that your daughters
are not clearing,
because especially cadmium
will mimic zinc and hijack
those pathways and you'll
become estrogen-dominant.
Estrogen tells the body to grow.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: Progesterone tells
the body what to grow into.
But if your progesterone
is converting immediately
to cortisol, which is how
it works biochemically,
you have estrogen
sitting out there,
and that's a very profound
problem for so many people.
So the gut test you do
is not a blood test.
I mean, blood only tells
you what's in the blood.
That's like saying, if you
want to know what vegetables
are available in
Whole Foods is you
hijack some trucks
on the freeway
and see what's in the trunks.
They won't tell you--
>> REGINA: Are you talking more
stool samples or something?
>> COHEN: No.
We do both saliva
and stool samples.
>> REGINA: OK.
Yeah.
>> COHEN: The reason why we
do saliva is because a lot
of the parasites hide.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: And so the least
you can check for antibodies.
>> REGINA: Yeah, and a
lot of people I interview,
this is really agreed
upon as the way to go now,
instead of blood.
>> COHEN: Well, both
of them are valuable
but they're for
different reasons.
I do both.
I do a lot.
>> REGINA: So once you've
done the tests and so forth,
now you see what you see.
They're allergic to
all these things,
according to their blood, I
mean according to their saliva
and their Stools.
How do you begin the
clearing process?
>> COHEN: The clearing process
first is to identify what
shouldn't be in your body.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: And reduce
that exposure.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: And the second
thing is pretty simple.
It's how to get it
out the quickest way.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: And many people are
too sick to get it out all
at once.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: So I sometimes use
a very controlled medical
cleanse, and I make adaptions,
depending if there is heavy
metals or there is these
toxins and solvents and stuff.
They have to leach amount
of the body in a way
that a person doesn't
get so sick that actually
their life can be in jeopardy.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: That's a mistake a
lot of new practitioners make.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COHEN: Thinking
you need something,
and it's good for somebody,
and they're very sick,
so let's give it to them.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: And you can only
do one thing at a time.
So it really depends
what we find.
And right now,
I'm finding things
that I never found before.
>> REGINA: Like?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> COHEN: I had a
woman from Ukraine,
and we found they wanted
to cut out her gallbladder
in the Ukraine.
And her whole family is here,
actually, in the United States,
and I've treated
everybody in the family.
Once I helped one,
they all came in.
So they flew grandma in, and I
told them don't do the surgery.
And I found
Blastocystis hominis.
>> REGINA: You found what?
>> COHEN: Blastocystis hominis.
>> REGINA: OK.
What is that?
>> COHEN: That's a
really bad parasite.
>> REGINA: This is not something
that you'd seen before?
>> COHEN: No.
When I started doing this 30
years ago, we never saw that.
>> REGINA: So what's happening?
Is it something that's adapted?
Where's this coming from?
>> COHEN: We're not adapting.
>> REGINA: No.
We're not adapting.
>> COHEN: We're not adapting.
Our barrier systems
are broken down.
>> REGINA: But are parasites
adapting, or is it--
>> COHEN: Yes.
>> REGINA: They're adapting.
>> COHEN: They're adapting also.
So a lot of times, when
we find these things,
it's because the barrier system.
That's why people are taking
these proton inhibitors that
shouldn't be taking that.
Thinking that they're suffering
from acid reflux, when they're
really suffering from they
can't digest the food,
and the food is fermenting
and putrefying in their gut.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: And so it feels
like you have too much acid,
but when you're under stress,
your body stops making acid.
I think that's right
in guidance physiology.
That should be well known.
>> REGINA: So what happens
when you start throwing acid
reducers down there?
>> COHEN: They can't
handle proteins.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> COHEN: So proteins that
you need to rebuild your body,
because your body has
to have a balance.
Every day you get a catabolic,
and every day get anabolic.
The good news, you get to
rebuild yourself every day.
>> REGINA: If you don't throw
some monkey wrench in there
to stop the process.
>> COHEN: Or if you go
too much into catabolic.
You get into chronic stress,
your body needs energy.
That's the problem with
a lot of the cancers,
and when it happens with
cancers, you get hypoxic.
In the energy parts of the
cell, you get oxygen-deprived,
because the body is
fighting for its life,
and so it converts into the part
of the body to produce energy.
So your body tears
yourself down,
and you don't have enough
to repair yourself.
>> REGINA: Is that a fundamental
truth of all cancers?
>> COHEN: Well, I don't
know about all cancers.
I work with a
cancer researchers.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: So his opinions.
I'm not as extreme
as his opinion.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
>> COHEN: But he found in his
research at Stanford that many
of the cancer therapies,
particularly chemotherapy,
actually drives precancerous
cells into cancer.
My opinion, there are cancers--
and it's not a talk on cancer--
that chemotherapy saves lives.
>> REGINA: With
certain specific ones.
>> COHEN: Specific cancers,
it shortens life in different
cancers.
>> REGINA: Do you feel
comfortable mentioning
the cancers that can
successfully be addressed with
chemo versus the rest?
>> COHEN: Well, we know them.
Everybody knows them.
They're all available--
leukemias, lymphomas, response.
Some of the ones that have a
pernicious anemia component
have been found to
work with chemo,
but many of the cancers
that people are having--
the kidney cancers and stuff--
it's not saving lives.
Because a lot of
it is a breakdown
in these individual
pathways, and some of it's
to do with genetics.
Now they are making
breakthroughs.
There's really good
stuff going on,
but it's not keeping
up with the breakdown
over our immune systems
from the toxic overload.
>> REGINA: So let's talk
about, since it's not a talk
on cancer, it's a talk on
restoring immune system
function.
>> COHEN: Right.
>> REGINA: Restoring
authenticity and integrity
within the entire being, as we
started talking about to begin
with.
There's a being that comes
in with this question
that they're
uniquely positioned.
>> COHEN: Right.
>> REGINA: To find the answer
to and express in this world.
Somehow that gets hijacked
along the way, in most cases.
We end up in positions
where we start also taking
on these familial patterns.
Right?
>> COHEN: Right.
>> REGINA: So we've got
the familiar programming
that's going on.
We've got a load of toxins that
we're swimming in a sea of.
So with that, how do we
begin recovering ourselves
in general?
>> COHEN: In my opinion,
the first thing I've done--
first of all, the immune system,
most people get it wrong.
They think that they're
having immune problems.
Their immune system
is not working.
It's suppressed,
when it's really
an overactive immune system.
It's overreacting.
>> REGINA: Is that
true in most cases?
>> COHEN: In most cases,
it's the people that are real
seriously sick that the
immune system doesn't react.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> COHEN: And then what happens
is that the two things that set
off these chronic diseases
is always inflammation
and irritation.
>> REGINA: Right.
So you have to reduce
the inflammation, which
what are some of the most
fundamental ways in which we
go about that, all humans?
I know we're all wired
very differently.
So it's not like you
can prescribe anything
for any particular ailment.
>> COHEN: Well, it's not
only what you ingest.
It's taking away from
your diet, which was
a question we didn't get to.
You didn't ask me the question.
I didn't get to about greens.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
the green stuff.
Yeah.
>> COHEN: Your diet,
everybody's diet,
should be 80% micronutrients.
>> REGINA: Oh, really?
That's a lot of green.
>> COHEN: Not just greens,
all the micronutrients are
the greens, particularly
the cruciferous,
because they're high in indols.
So if you're lacking
certain genetic ability
to produce certain
enzymes for clearing
the cruciferous vegetables,
particularly the Brussels
sprouts and kale,
are particularly
powerful for overcoming
the genetic problems.
>> REGINA: Oh, interesting.
OK.
>> COHEN: And then the next
one is for the methylation we
talked about, with the
epigenetics is onions
and garlic.
>> REGINA: What about some
people who can't do onions
and garlic?
It's just their
bodies don't like it.
>> COHEN: Well, why
don't they like it?
>> REGINA: I don't know.
You tell me.
>> COHEN: Toxicity.
Chemicals.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> COHEN: It's leaching
out the chemicals,
because when they leach out
the chemicals, that get sick.
>> REGINA: OK.
I see.
OK.
>> COHEN: Yeah.
They're already sick.
That's why it's hard.
It's embedded into your tissues,
particularly your fat cells.
And then when your body
starts getting energy,
it will leak come out, and
you'll get really sick.
And they call it a
healing crisis, which
to me is there's no such thing.
You see a lot of
practitioners saying--
and I'm not criticizing them--
but I was taught the same
thing, that oh, they're just
going through a healing crisis.
No.
They're going through a crisis.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: There's
no healing crisis.
>> REGINA: Right.
OK.
>> COHEN: So it's
not controlled.
>> REGINA: I don't want
to get you off this path,
because a lot of people are
writing right now, and so am I,
taking notes.
>> COHEN: OK.
>> REGINA: So we've got
Brussels sprouts and kale.
>> COHEN: Mushrooms.
>> REGINA: Onions and
garlic, mushrooms,
any kind of mushrooms
or wild mushrooms?
>> COHEN: Well, I'm happy
people just eat them,
but the great ones would
be shiitake, maitake.
>> REGINA: The meatier ones.
>> COHEN: Yeah.
If a woman eats one
mushroom a day--
and I guess this is true for
men for prostate cancer--
the rate of cancer
goes down 56%,
and if they eat five
a day, breast cancer
goes down over 80%.
So why aren't
people eating them?
And if they're
not eating them, I
give it to them in
whole food supplements.
>> REGINA: Do they need to be
raw and intact or can you cook
them?
>> COHEN: You can steam them.
>> REGINA: OK.
OK.
So now after mushrooms--
>> COHEN: All cooking
is is pre-digestion,
and a lot of things
people can't break down.
They're not producing
the enzymes.
>> REGINA: Such as
cellulose and all.
OK.
>> COHEN: So then
there's the mushrooms,
and then the next thing you
want the beans and berries.
Now, a lot of this is modified
based on their blood type.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: And then the
last one is seeds and nuts.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> COHEN: And a lot of people
on a vegan diet are not getting
enough proteins, and
I'm for a vegan diet,
so I'm not against
the vegan diet.
>> REGINA: I was a
vegetarian for many years,
and I did go into pretty much
a crisis from lack of protein.
I started breaking down.
>> COHEN: Right.
>> REGINA: After
all those years.
>> COHEN: If you want
to be vegetarian,
depending on your blood type.
Because I have a lot
of patients from India
who are vegetarian because
of religious reasons.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: And they're O's.
>> REGINA: Which is a
mediating blood type.
>> COHEN: Well, it's
protein-dependent.
>> REGINA: Protein.
Yeah.
>> COHEN: Because their
body's designed to store.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: That's
why they get sick.
>> REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>> COHEN: Yeah, because
it's the oldest gene.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: A's, it's
a different problem.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: So that's a
stress-related gene.
>> REGINA: OK.
So I hope you've
been taking notes,
because we have all kinds
of things we can start
focusing a little more on.
>> COHEN: So let's
say 80% of your diet.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COHEN: The rest is your
proteins and your carbs,
and of course,
from a historical,
evolutionary standpoint, you
don't want to limit your simple
carbs.
All that does is light the fire.
That's like the kindling.
The complex carbs-- the
latest stuff that we've gotten
is we need 25,000
to 45,000 nutrients.
We used to think, just
eat a healthy diet.
A year and a half
ago, scientists
have found that we
need a wide variety.
And each nutrient
in our intestines,
it's like think of a shaggy rug.
Each villi-- which
is like a hair
protuberance-- it's specific
for a specific nutrient.
And if you don't have
enough nutrients, a variety
of nutrients attached
to it, your body
starts getting confused, and
you get autoimmune disease.
It starts attacking itself.
>> REGINA: It's so
incredibly complex,
when it seems like
it should be so easy.
>> COHEN: It is easy.
It is eat what we're designed
to and what we evolve--
>> REGINA: Right.
OK.
>> COHEN: And the simplicity of
it all is to live a life that
has six components
every single day.
>> REGINA: Let's
talk about those.
>> COHEN: OK.
The six components
is complexity.
So you have to have
every day for your brain
and your nervous system
to keep developing.
>> REGINA: You have to
keep your mind engaged.
>> COHEN: But it
has to be complex.
It can't be just repetitive.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: It has to
have many components.
You have to think about it and
figure it out and work with it.
>> REGINA: So a
challenge for the mind.
>> COHEN: You've
got the second one.
You have to be challenged
to go a little beyond what
you think you can.
The next one is nurturing.
We're designed to be touched and
communal, and that's oxytocin.
That's not a sexual touch.
That's a loving touch that
has no sexual component.
That releases
oxytocin which enables
us to feel a part of
things and with things.
The next is movement.
You have to move your
body every single day,
and the next thing is
the right nutrition,
and that's individual.
Not everybody has
the same nutrition.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COHEN: And the
right nutrition,
and the third thing is a
purpose beyond yourself
that's communal.
So eating a meal
that's calorie-dense,
full of nutrients with a lot
of laughter and a lot of fun
and a lot of feeling
a part of each other,
that's going to add so
many years to your life
and the quality of your life.
And then the ability to
care about each other
is so important, and that
the purpose goes beyond.
And what happens,
it doesn't matter
what's going on outside you,
because it's all inside you
anyway.
You are your creator.
It's inside you, that
ability to create and heal.
Your nervous system
will continue--
it's called
neosynaptic genesis--
you'll keep producing synapses,
no matter how old you are.
And you'll see
people though, they
won't have these chronic
diseases as they age.
They'll be very rare, if you
have those six components.
And then you have to
have a life of purpose.
So your life has to go through
the stages of attuning yourself
to truth.
Truth never changes,
and when you always
tell the truth, most
importantly to yourself,
you start trusting yourself.
And then, if you trust
yourself, then you
can have gratitude
and appreciation,
and that begets love, which we
all need, love and compassion.
And then we'd live a life that
is full of integrity, honor,
respect.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COHEN: Which is
critical and integrity.
>> REGINA: It's a
beautiful formula.
>> COHEN: And it's right
out of the tree of life.
>> REGINA: Yes, and this is
just an observation I've made.
What you were just
talking about,
eating these nutrient-dense
meals with other people
and laughing.
Because when you're
laughing and talking,
it allows your food to
have time to even digest.
>> COHEN: Yeah.
>> REGINA: One of the most
depressing things I see is
there's been a kind of a
trend for people who are
on their own, oftentimes, will
go to some of the larger health
food stores that have an area,
a seating area restaurant with
them, often go
there by themselves.
You can go into a lot of
these stores in the evening,
all these people
are dining alone.
It is one of the
gloomiest places to be.
Everyone's going
there because they're
trying to take in these
nutrient-rich foods,
but it's just depressing
being in that environment.
>> COHEN: Right.
>> REGINA: Every person
sitting at their own table,
not talking to each other,
of course, not touching.
>> COHEN: Right, and
that's a big problem,
but the other problem is sharing
a meal with somebody that wants
to share their
problems with you.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
>> COHEN: Because then you
won't digest your food.
It should be fun and
light and enjoyable.
>> REGINA: Well, Gerald,
on that note, OK,
thank you for making that
demarcation between the two
experiences.
I appreciate it, and I
thank you for your time
and for your wisdom and
sharing it with us today.
>> COHEN: Oh, I enjoyed it.
>> REGINA: For anyone who would
like to connect with Gerald,
you can go to his website at
Dr. G. Cohen, D-R-G-Cohen,
dot com and find out more
about his array of healing
modalities, and the way
he's helping people get back
to their vibrant health, some
of which you've heard today.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]